# Architectural approaches

## Service-oriented architecture

SOA is a style of software design where services are provided to the other components by application components, through a communication protocol over a network. The basic principles of service-oriented architecture are independent of vendors, products and technologies. A service is a discrete unit of functionality that can be accessed remotely and acted upon and updated independently, such as retrieving a credit card statement online.

## Event-driven architecture

EDA, is a software architecture pattern promoting the production, detection, consumption of, and reaction to events. From a formal perspective, what is produced, published, propagated, detected or consumed is a (typically asynchronous) message called the event notification, and not the event itself, which is the state change that triggered the message emission. Events do not travel, they just occur. However, the term event is often used metonymically to denote the notification message itself, which may lead to some confusion. Building systems around an event-driven architecture simplifies horizontal scalability in distributed computing models and makes them more resilient to failure. This is because an application state can be copied across multiple parallel snapshots for high-availability. New events can be initiated anywhere, but more importantly propagated across the network of data stores updating each as they arrive. Adding extra nodes becomes easier  as well as you can simply take a copy of the application state, feed it a stream of events and run with it. Event-driven architecture can complement SOA because services can be activated by triggers fired on incoming events. This paradigm is particularly useful whenever the sink does not provide any self-contained executive

## CQRS architecture style: command-query separation

In traditional architectures, the same data model is used to query and update a database. That's simple and works well for basic CRUD operations. In more complex applications, however, this approach can become unwieldy. For example, on the read side, the application may perform many different queries, returning data transfer objects (Data Transfer Objects or DTOs) with different shapes.

Object mapping can become complicated. On the write side, the model may implement complex validation and business logic. As a result, you can end up with an overly complex model that does too much. Another potential problem is that read and write workloads are often asymmetrical, with very different performance and scale requirements.

Command and Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS) is an architecture which addresses these problems by separating reads and writes into separate models, using commands to update data, and queries to read data.

Commands should be task based, rather than data centric. Commands may be placed on a queue for asynchronous processing, rather than being processed synchronously. Queries never modify the database. A query returns a DTO that does not encapsulate any knowledge. Compared to the single data model used in CRUD-based systems, the use of separate query and update models for the data in CQRS-based systems simplifies design and implementation.
For greater isolation, the read and the write data could be physically separated. In that case, the read database can use its own data schema that is optimized for queries.

For example, it can store a materialized view of the data, in order to avoid complex joins or mappings. It might even use a different type of data store. If separate read and write databases are used, they must be kept in sync. Typically this is accomplished by having the write model publish an event whenever it updates the DB.

## Design by Contract: contract programming approach

Design by contract (DbC), also known as contract programming, programming by contract and design-by-contract programming, is an approach for designing software prescribes that software designers should define formal, precise and verifiable interface specifications for software components, which extend the ordinary definition of abstract data types with preconditions, postconditions and invariants. These specifications are referred to as "contracts", in accordance with a conceptual metaphor with the conditions and obligations of business contracts.

The DbC approach assumes all client components that invoke an operation on a server component will meet the preconditions specified as required for that operation. Where this assumption is considered too risky (as in multi-channel client-server or distributed computing) the opposite "defensive design" approach is taken, meaning that a server component tests (before or while processing a client's request) that all relevant preconditions hold true, and replies with a suitable error message if not.

